Welcome back.
So the bulk of this section is on built in functions.
So there are a bunch of functions that Python gives us.
We have yet to talk about.
And they're pretty helpful.
So we're going to kind of go through them one by one.
Towards the end of the section but the first thing we're going to talk about is kind of a weird topic
it's called lambdas and I'll just warn you upfront it might seem a little weird might be startling once
we learn what it is and the syntax and it's kind of a special case of a function.
So with that said let's just dive into it.
In this video.
OK.
So I'm going to show you an example and you're going to think that it's bizarre but then I'm going to
show you a potential use case and hopefully it will explain why why you would even want to use a lambda.
Well let's start with the syntax and the first thing I'll do is just define a regular old plane function
like this that we've seen before and it just returned.
It's called Square takes a single parameter and returns times.
Right.
Very simple.
And we could do something like print square of nine and if I execute it we get 81.
OK that's totally review.
This is a function called Square and it's pretty short.
We could just put it on a single line like this and it should work exactly the same.
And it does.
But now I'm going to show you a lambda and I'm just going to write the syntax before I explain it.
It looks like this.
So this is the lambda that does the exact same thing.
You can think of this as a function that has no name.
It just exists right here.
We could save it to a variable like this square.
Let's do square 2.
So square 2 is a variable that contains a lambda which is different.
This is an actual function that has a name.
This square to that function has no name.
Some people call them anonymous functions in other languages like javascript.
These are very similar to anonymous functions if you're familiar with them.
The idea is that it's a procedure we can run and then a short one line only so lambda can only be one
line and the syntax looks like this.
Lambda always lambda and then our parameter and we can have multiple But if we're just copying what
we have here just numb or X or whatever colon and then a single expression.
So we're only allowed a single expression.
You wouldn't have multiple lines.
And this expression is automatically returned.
So we don't use the return statement and we just do numb times.
Now in this case and now will automatically be returned.
The result of that and to call this it looks exactly the same.
It just runs square 2 and then a past number let's do 7.
I should say though this is not how you would typically use a lambda.
You won't store it in a variable.
I'm just doing this to show you how it works.
So if we run this now we get 49.
OK.
So we have two functions that do the same thing.
This is a named function and this is a lambda stored in a variable.
We can also define another Lambda Lambda called ADD and do lambda.
Let's do a comma B and then we just return a plus b.
So this takes in two parameters A and B and then it returns a statement a plus b.
So then we could print ad of 3 and 10.
Just make sure that works and we get 13.
And just to prove to you that our lambdas have no names if we do square dot remember this name property
where if you haven't seen it before there's a name property and we can print it to underscores and either
side of name if we print it for square we get square.
OK.
But now let's duplicate this two times in one time for our first Lamda square two and another time for
AD.
And what do we see.
They don't have a name.
They're just lambdas they're in a variable called Square 2 or.
But that is very different.
OK so now this all begs the question we've seen a lambda is like a function has no name on a single
line.
Why would you use this.
And the most common use case is when you have some code that actually you need to pass the function
into another function as a parameter and that function will never be used again.
So just saying it out loud like that sounds kind of ludicrous to to imagine a scenario.
But I'm going to do is put it in a little time machine and take you forward.
Show you some code that we haven't seen yet and that we won't.
Well we may understand it but you shouldn't understand it by default.
So this uses a library called contar Centra Teekay interface.
I think actually most people say Teekay enter.
And it helps us make goolies graphical user interfaces using Python.
So I have these comments that say don't worry about this don't worry about any of this code.
So I don't want to focus on any of this but let me just fire this up first to show you what it does.
It's kind of fun and it's called buttoned up.
I said I'm going to run that and I get this little window over here it's kind of hard to see.
I don't think I can make it bigger right now.
There's a button that says Click me every time I click that button I get the text.
Hello.
OK.
That's it.
Click the X and it quits out.
So all of this code is responsible for importing t concerti Kantar creating a frame creating a button
giving the foreground color the text on the button and then starting the button up starting everything.
But notice this code right here.
So this is how we make a button.
Again not the focus of this section so far but it's cool to see and we pass in a couple of arguments
the first one is where we want the button to be the frame it's going to go on then the text of the button
so we could change that the foreground color.
And then this is the part I want to focus on a command and command is going to be a function that will
be called whenever that button is clicked.
So right now I have a say hi function over here and it's just a single line that print Hello.
So still very simple but this function is not used anywhere else.
It's only used in this one line of code.
Imagine that if I had you know 20 buttons and rather than saying hi or printing something let's say
that we're building a little calculator tool with 20 buttons for each number or to add things together
whatever that is.
We have 20 buttons.
We don't want to define an individual one line function for each button.
So what we can do instead is use a lambda.
You might think could we just do this right here.
Comments say hi out.
This is what happens if we tried that hello is run immediately.
I haven't even clicked yet.
And now when I click and nothing happens remember when we have these parentheses like this we're executing
a function.
So when this code is read this print is run as if it was just down here.
So that's also not what we want.
So what we want is a one line short syntax to just tell it to print hello without actually executing
it.
And rather than defining an individual function like say hi we can use a lambda.
So we just write lambda and we don't even need a parameter for this lambda.
So we'll just do Colan print hello.
You know we could put this in a separate variable but that defeats the purpose.
The point of the lambda is that it's inline and we don't have to make another function or anything.
This is a nameless function that just allows us to say OK when the button is clicked.
Run print hello.
Run this function or run this lambda and all that does is this single expression.
So let's verify that it works.
Now I click and I get hello I didn't capitalize it.
Sorry about that but otherwise it's identical.
So imagine again we have two buttons and this is button two and this one we can easily just print goodbye
but if we had instead of using a lambda we had to do say by that means defining a whole other function
appear just to use one time.
So hopefully you can see you know a bit of the utility here.
It's just a temporary thing.
We pass in the lambda instead as an argument to this button.
And don't worry about the button magic and Teekay and all that stuff.
Just focus on this.
We replaced a named function with this anonymous lambda.
So it's hard for me to gauge how this went because I'm just sitting here alone recording this.
I don't have student faces in front of me showing me looks of shock and confusion or vague understanding
I can't gauge it.
So if this just made zero sense and you're totally freaked out.
The good news is that lambdas are not that commonly used.
This is kind of a special situation.
There is actually Vasa blog posts on line of people at one point arguing that they should be removed
that they shouldn't be in Python 3 that there should be another solution.
But they're still here.
And so I just want you to see them.
It's something that if I didn't include I knew I would get some comments about and somebody would would
need one at some point and I would want to know what the heck they are because they are weird but just
to reiterate it's just a single line function that has no name.
You can store in a variable but that's not something you typically do.
In my slides there's a couple of more examples we even add we've multiply if you want to take a look.
And in the next video I'm actually going to show you another common use case for lambdas that's a little
less exciting than creating buttons and a graphical interface but it's also a common use case for them
where we pass them in to another function.